# Sermon Notes - January 7, 2025 
**Speaker/Pastor:** Ps. Ryan 
**Topic:** Way to View Fasting and Prayer (Drawing Near)

#### Scripture Reference:

- **James 5:16** -> "Confess your sins to one another and pray for one another, that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working."
- **1 Peter 5:6-7** -> "Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God so that at the proper time he may exalt you, casting all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you."
- **Genesis 45:4** -> "So Joseph said to his brothers, 'Come near to me, please.' And they came near. And he said, 'I am your brother, Joseph, whom you sold into Egypt.'"
- **Hebrews 4:16** -> "Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need."
- **James 4:7-8** -> "Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded."

#### Key Points:

1. **Resist Shame**

   - Adam and Eve - Ate of fruit and then made clothes, covered up, and hid!
   - "If they really knew who you are, they would not accept you."
   - Shame grows in silence, secrecy, and judgment and is broken when shared.
   - **James 5:16** -> "Confess your sins to one another and pray for one another, that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working."

2. **Resist Anxiety**

   - Anxiety is not sinful, but when it enters our prayer life, it disconnects us from God.
   - "It will slip into your prayer ... Worrying in God’s direction."
   - **1 Peter 5:6-7** -> "Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God so that at the proper time he may exalt you, casting all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you."
   - Notice, name it, and share it with God, giving it to Him.

#### Main Point: 1 Thing to Drawing Near

1. **"Intimacy with God"**
   - Intimacy with God looks like many things but has one thing in common: "Intimacy with God."
   - **Genesis 45:4** -> "So Joseph said to his brothers, 'Come near to me, please.' And they came near. And he said, 'I am your brother, Joseph, whom you sold into Egypt.'"
   - Every time you pray, show up, sustain, resist the devil, etc., you are drawing near.
   - **Hebrews 4:16** -> "Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need."
   - **James 4:7-8** -> "Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded."
   - When you are in need of direction, strength, healing, etc., ---- Draw Near!!!!
